---
title: Ros gz bridge for harmonic and testing
date: 2024-10-21 9:00:00 +0100
tags: [weekly progress]
author: david
img_path: /assets/img/
toc: true
comments: true
---

## Index

- [Testing](#testing)
- [Some issues](#some_issues)
- [Working on harmonic](#working-on-harmonic)


## Testing
test:
- Update autoparking frontend
- Updating amazon warehouse frontend
- Update global nav frontend
- Testing monaco
- Update 3d reconstruction frontend
- Testing GPU

## Some issues

- Instructions for developers wrong link
- Refinements in "Exercise gridmap web page"

## Working on harmonic


The first obstacle was to use the -f option for the creation of the docker, as this option updates all the dependencies.

The second docker construction problem was solved by a colleague. Some computers were not able to compile the aeroestack2 workspace, so it was compiled package by package and has been fixed.
Thanks to this, the coexistence of gazebo classic and gazebo harmonic has been achieved.

On the other hand, to use robot with gazebo harmonic it is necessary to use a `ros_gz_bridge`. For all tests I have used this [repo](https://github.com/dduro2020/harmonic_demo) in which the scenario has been further simplified and I have managed to implement topics for laser, wheels and camera.

The latest achievement has been to include everything necessary in RoboticsInfraestructure, although it is not yet working properly. The database has also been modified to be able to handle gazebo harmonic universes.
The last problem has to do with RoboticsApplicationManager, where the `gzsim` client cannot be launched and therefore the simulation cannot be launched.


Docker does not delete the cache of the images that are created, in order to free the space manually:
```bash
docker system df
docker builder prune
```